---
layout: post
title:  "Obvious and Fair Isn't Always Obvious and Fair"
date:   2015-05-29 09:00:00
categories: general
---

When trying to impact signicant change within an organization, company, industry or whatever else, it's common for those pushing for change to label everyone who fails to see this change as both obvious and fair as "the opposition." This can frequently lead to counterproductive behavior that tends to hinder the progress of change and sometimes even cause potential allies to become real opposition. The change you want can be completely correct and justifiable, but that doesn't mean it should be immediately obvious to everyone else and any change to the status quo, no matter how fair and just, is likely to have a negative impact on some (think of it like a scale, to make it balanced, one side has to come down).

Enacting any sort of significant change is all about building constituencies - finding allies. That process involves differentiating the levels of support for change and working within these groups to tip the balance of support in favor of change. The way I see it, there are essentially five groups in which, of course, "membership" is fluid:

* __The Bought In__ - These are the people to whom the change is both obvious and fair. They are leading the change not just in word but also in action and, as such, are the "public" face of this change. Taking an active lead in a change, regardless of it's correctness, is putting yourself in a position of vulnerability - you are not just open to attack, but also to a barrage of questions by those who are trying to come to grips or understand the change.
* __The Openly Supportive__ - This group talks openly in support of the change but doesn't actively do anything to support it. They can often come across as opposition inasmuch as they can seem to be co-opting a cause for their own purposes (and sometimes they are), whether that be self-promotion or trying to tie their own issues to your efforts to enact change. Nonetheless, if you can weed out the blatantly self-promotional, this is an obvious group to cultivate into "the bought in."
* __The Quietly Supportive__ - If your change is to be successful, this will end up the largest group. This group is open to the change but it is probably not immediately obvious to them, so they may have a lot of questions but these questions shouldn't be taken as a sign of opposition. Some in this group may also be willing to take behind-the-scenes roles to assist in the change, but are uncomfortable with the implications of being the public face of the change.
* __The Quietly Opposed__ - This group is somewhat hostile to the change and sees the it as neither obvious nor necessarily fair, but that doesn't mean they can't be convinced. In many cases, this is the largest group when you start a change mostly because people often prefer the status quo, even when a system is clearly broken. The challenge is to find ways to bring many of these people into the quietly supportive camp.
* __The Openly Opposed__ - This is the group that is openly hostile to a change. Generally speaking, it's not worthwhile to waste effort trying to gain support within this group or engage in debate with them. If your change gathers momentum and support, many of them will simply become "the quietly opposed." This doesn't mean you ignore their arguments entirely, just remember - the audience for your rebuttals is not the person openly opposing change but those quietly supportive or quietly opposed. Don't be baited into allowing your response to "the openly oppossed" create more opposition.

